There are a few direct references to the old user role that we just changed.
Switching to this new authority requires a little bit of
code refactory on the server side.
We're going to start with the AuthoritiesConstants class.
This class if found in the package com.
Pluralsight.
patientportal.
security.
Currently, there's a constant for user.
We're going to change the value to ROLE_PATIENT to match
the database change that we just made.
And we're going to refactor the code to rename the
constant from user to patient.
Let's do that now.
I've opened up Eclipse, and I have the AuthoritiesConstants class in the editor.
We're going to refactor the user constant to be patient.
Let's start by changing the value.
I've changed ROLE_USER to be ROLE_PATIENT.
I'm going to go ahead and save that.
Next, I'm going to refactor the user constant.
I'll double-click it, right-click, and select Refactor, Rename.
I'm going to change USER to be PATIENT.
Let's click Enter, that refactor is going to change about five classes total.
A couple of them are in your main source code,
and the rest of them are in tests.
Now that we have this change in place,
let's look at two of those changes that were made.
I'm going to start with the UserService.
You can find the UserService in the package com.
Pluralsight.
patientportal.
service.
This class was generated by JHipster,
and backs many of the UI features around user management
that are available to the administrator.
Let's search for the patient role.
Here we find the createUser method.
This will, by default,
now add the patient role any time a new user is created by this behavior.
As you add more roles to your application,
you'll likely need to revisit the user service to
determine how roles get applied for new users.
Along with the service, one of the tests has changed.
Let's open that now.
I'm going to open up UserResourceIntTest.
This is found in the package com.
Pluralsight.
patientportal.
web.
rest.
I'm going to go ahead here and I'm going to search for ROLE_USER.
As you can see, JHipster didn't leverage constants here in the test.
But we can easily fix that.
Let's replace the string, ROLE_USER, with our new authority constant.
So I'm going to replace ROLE_USER with AuthoritiesConstants.
PATIENT.
We'll do a Replace All.
I'll go ahead and close my Find menu,
and that'll have made about two or three changes in our class.
Now with this test updated, and our backend code changes in place,
it's a good opportunity to try to actually run these tests.
Let's go ahead and open up a command line now.
I've opened back up a PowerShell window,
and I've navigated to the project directory.
Let's run a Gradle command to execute a test task.
I'll type in.
\gradlew test.
You should see that the build was successful.
If you get an error with a test run related to the in memory database,
you can safely ignore it.
So as I can see here, all of my tests have passed successfully, which is good.
We still need one more change to the client-side code for the role.
Let's take a look at that now.
I've opened back up Eclipse,
and in the client-side code JHipster has added support for route guards.
This supports showing and hiding routes based on the user authorities defined.
There are three routes that we need to change.
First, let's navigate to the webapp folder,
then under account, password, we can open password.
route.
ts.
In this file, we have the password route definition.
You'll notice there's a data attribute on the route.
You'll also notice that the role,
ROLE_USER string is being passed as part of the
authorities into this data attribute.
By defining a role in this manner,
the UserRouteAccessService will check these authorities and determine
whether or not the current user can activate the route.
Let's change this authority here to ROLE_PATIENT.
Go ahead and save, now let's do the same thing for the sessions route.
I'm going to expand sessions, and I'll select sessions.
route.
ts.
I'll change ROLE_USER, and again I'll click save.
Finally, we need to change the settings route.
I'll expand the settings folder, and we'll select settings.
route.
ts.
And I'll again change the authorities from ROLE_USER to ROLE_PATIENT.
Save, and now that these routes are changed,
they're only going to be visible to our patient user.
With this code updated, let's start the application up again, and make sure that everything is working as expected.